In this demo I will show you
how to use the Postgres-operator.
You can find the Postgres-operator on GitHub.
It's not the only Postgres-operator that is available,
there are multiple ones, everyone can create an operator
for postgres or for any other database.
I took this one because it's quite popular,
it has some stars and also
because it has all the functionality.
So you can create, configure, manage PostgreSQL clusters,
you can scale it, you can make replicas
so it's a pretty advanced operator.
You can find the official documentation here
which includes getting started.
I will show you step by step
how to install the operator and use it.
And then afterwards you can maybe check the documentation
to see what else you can do with this operator.
Maybe some more advanced things.
So I'm logged in to my VM and I will go
to vagrant kubernetes course Postgres-operator.
So it's a folder in my GitHub repository.
Here I have readme with all the basic commands
that you need to launch the operator and to start using it.
First we need to set up a storage.
So this is storage yml file.
To set up a storage class with a name standard type GP two
in the zone EU West one A,
that's where I launched my kubernetes cluster.
So I'm gonna do kubectl create the storage
and then we can execute a script.
So I took this script from this URL,
it's from the Postgres-operator GitHub is a quick start
for the cool kubernetes engine but you can also use it
for other ones, for example I'm going
to do it in IGS cluster this also works.
So first it tests my kubectl connection which is working.
These are the namespaces that I have,
I created the cluster nine minutes ago.
And then it asked if it can be installed
on my current cluster kubernetes newtech academy.
I press yes and this will then start installation.
It asked me what storage to use, I also say standard.
There are some errors here, it's in the script somewhere,
I'm sure that it will get resolved in one
of the next revisions but for now there seems
to be some replacements that go wrong
but don't worry it's for example.
The storage class that it wants to replace
that's why I added a standard one
because that's a replacement that doesn't work here.
So for now you can only use the one
that is called standard because that's what they use.
But like I said I'm sure it will be fixed in the future.
Do you want to deploy the operator?
Yes and now it's going to check
whether there has already something that exists.
Nothing exists so it's going to install all those objects.
You see here the custom resource definitions
are now being created.
Then a service account a role, role binding,
a secret config map and then the deployment
for the Postgres-operator.
So the Postgres operator itself is a deployment
that will be running
and a service to reach each Postgres-operator.
And now we need to do a port forward
to be able to use this operator.
So I'll do the port forwarding in a new window.
So now I'm doing port forward of the Postgres-operator.
So this is unique.
If you do this it will be another string.
And now I have port forwarding from a local port
to my kubernetes operator ports.
In order to access the PGO CLI,
place it within your path from its default location.
I made a script.
Set path, that does it for you.
So you can just exit set path
and then you just need to log in and log out.
And then you should be able to use this
PGO binary.
So PGO client version 3.1, API version 3.1.
So this will only works if you have the port forwarding on
because this PGO client communicates
with this Postgres-operator.
As I have not looked at the readme.
So we set up a storage, we set up the operator,
we enabled port forwarding, we did PGO version to test it
and now we can create a posgres secret cluster.
We can do PGO create cluster mycluster which will create
a postgres instance with the name mycluster.
So we have a deployment, a service and have some labels.
Let us use kubectl to see what is running.
So now the container is creating for mycluster.
So you can see here we have also the pod
for the operator itself.
What is running?
Mycluster is being created.
This can take some time because the images
need to get pulled.
Once that is created, we can do PGO show cluster mycluster
and we can do show secrets true to show the secrets
so that we can then connect using PSQL.
So we can use kubectl run IT so we can add terminal,
remove after we execute the postgres image
which is just an image that you can use
that is available on docker hub.
PSQL three, well the three you can remove.
It's just PSQL is the name of the deployment.
PSQL minus H mycluster is the host name
minus U postgres and ask for password.
There are three new users created, the root user,
a primary user and a test user.
I'll use the root user postgres.
So let's do kubectl run.
I just remove this three is not necessary,
I had put the three there because sometimes
if you quickly want to run it again then the port
might be already in use so then you can add two,
three, four and so on.
But now I haven't run it earlier so PSQL
as name of the deployment should be fine.
I'm gonna connect to my cluster.
This is going to pull first this postgres image
because this operator is using custom images
is the official image.
And then once I'm connected I can use this password.
If you don't see a command prompt try pressing Enter.
Well if you press Enter,
we are just providing an empty password.
So now if you'd see this line this is the time
to put your password, press ENTER and then your login.
I'm now connected to my postgres server
that you can use now in your cluster.
That is called mycluster.
So up to mycluster host you can now use in your cluster.
I'll quit from here.
And until now it's not really different
than just running the postgres server image
but the nice things that the operator supplies
are the extra features
that are difficult to implement yourself.
For example, create a read replica.
So you can just do PGO skill cluster, scale mycluster
and it will create a read replica.
So now not only have one instance of our cluster
you have two instances and one instance
will be synced with the other one.
So we have a read replica, kubectl gets pods O wide.
So now we have another instance that is being spun up.
So let's use watch to wait until it's running.
So now it's running but not ready.
But in a few seconds it'll be ready.
So if you now do PGO show cluster just on mycluster
then we now see that you have mycluster but you also
now have a replica, mycluster replica
and they are both running.
So this one is the primary and this one is a secondary.
So now it's possible for us when we do maintenance
on our nodes or this will be a node failure
that we create a replica on another node
if we add some more advanced plan to make sure
that our postgres can survive a node failure.
In the simple set of light it, it actually created
the cluster on the same node but you can supply strategies
to make sure that for example you have a cluster,
a kubernetes cluster that spans multiple zones
and that there will always be a replica in the other zones
so that your cluster cannot only survive a node failure
but also an availability zone failure.
We can also create a cluster with automatic failover
you can specify that when you create a cluster.
Now what I will show you is manual failover.
So this mycluster here is my primary
so I can do feed your failover my cluster query.
And it says that I can failover to this target.
So now what will happen is it will create a PG task,
a failover task that will make my secondary,
my replica the primary and then when I connect to my cluster
I will connect to this pod instead, the secondary.
So let's do PGO show cluster again.
And now the other one became the primary.
And now what is happening is that because we did a failover
it also created this replica on another node.
So now if you wanted we could do some maintenance
on this node for example.
It's still pending, it takes some time to make
this one primary but this is going to happen very soon.
This task is PG task is also a CRT.
So we can do kubectl get PG tasks, mycluster failover
minus O yaml to show this yaml file.
So this is a custom resource definition, it's a PG task.
So if you wanna see for example all the resource definitions
you can do kubectl get CRD and you will see
that these are CRDs created by this operator.
So this is extending the kubernetes API
and this allows me to use this API version and this kind.
So we have for example, one for clusters,
one for replicas, one for tasks.
We can also update our postgres
and we also have a CRD for this.
So these are our custom and this tool is creating
this for us but we don't have to do it.
But with some other operators
you have to write these the custom definitions.
Let's have a look again, the pods.
So now we have a running pods on different node.
So mycluster XVIS is running on a different node and is now
if you do PGO show cluster,
it is not a primary and it's running.
So this operator provides so much more
than just running yourself a postgres server.
This is a really good example that shows you
that operators can be very similar to cloud services.
If you want to run PostgreSQL yourself on kubernetes
you might not want to build it yourself but use
for example this operator or another one to make
the maintenance and the management,
the scaling much easier for you.
So this is a great example that you should test out
and then like I said in the operations lecture,
there are many more operators available.
On the CoreOS website you will find some operators
but also just in GitHub repositories
you will find operators that you can use.